```java
import java.util.Scanner;
import java.util.Random;

public class Ex19 {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    Scanner scanner = new Scanner(System.in);
    boolean doYouWantToPlay = true;
    while(doYouWantToPlay) {
      playGame();

      System.out.print("Do you want to continue playing? ")
      String response = "";
      while(!response.equals("yes") || !response.equals("no")) {
        response = scanner.nextLine().toLowerCase();
      }
      doYouWantToPlay = response.equals("yes");
    }
  }

  public static void playGame(Scanner scanner) {
    Random rand = new Random();
    int number = rand.nextInt(100) + 1;
    int userGuess = -1;
    while(userGuess != number) {
      userGuess = scanner.nextInt();
      if(userGuess > number) {
        System.out.println("Too high");
      } else if(userGuess < number) {
        System.out.println("Too low");
      }
    }
    System.out.println("Congratulations you won!!!");
  }
}
```

### Explanation
1. In this exercise, we use two new data types called `Random` and `Scanner`. In brief, we have so far come across two different types of data types. Fundamental data types such as `int`, `long` and `char`, etc, which are fundamental data types, that are built-in to the language. They conventionally start with a lowercase letter. The second type is class data types that are built-in either to the standard library, or user-defined. These include `String`, `Scanner` and `Random`. The standard library is a collection of Java code accessible to every Java program as it is bundled with the Java compiler. Some of it, such as `String` is automatically accessible. Some of it such as `Random` and `Scanner` must be deliberately imported into the code. You do this by typing in `import` and then the location of the class you want to import. `Scanner` and `Random` belong to the `java.util` package. Packages are used to make code more organised.
2. The difference between class data types and fundamental data types is, that class data types essentially are made up of other data types. So internally a `String` is made up of lots of `char` values. Class data types also can have methods e.g. `.length()` and `.charAt` which belong to a `String`.
3. You can create instances of a class data type calling a special method called a constructor, which returns an instance of the data type. The constructor uses the same name as the data type and may or may not take any arguments. You must put `new` before you call it, e.g. `new Random()`. You didn't do this with `String` because Java automatically sees `"Hello"` as being `new String("Hello")`.
4. One method of the `Random` class data type, is the `nextInt` method which takes in an integer, and returns a random value from 0 (inclusive) to the value you pass in (exclusive). So `randInt(100)` would be from 0 to 99 so we add 1 so it is 1 to 100.
5. The `Scanner` method takes in an input stream, from which you want to get input. The `InputStream` from the terminal is called `System.in`, as the output stream to the terminal is called `System.out`. Scanner allows you to get input from the terminal. If you want an integer, you can use its `nextInt()` method, if you want a character, you can use `nextChar()`. If you want a string you can use `nextLine()`.
