```java
public class Ex26 {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    try {
      int alpha = Integer.parseInt("THIS IS NOT A NUMBER. WAHAHA!");
    } catch(NumberFormatException e) {
      System.out.println("An attempt was made to parse a String which was not a number.");
    }

    try {
      int alpha = 5/0;
    } catch(ArithmeticException e) {
      System.out.println("Somebody tried to divide by 0. Oh no!");
    }

    try {
      int[] alpha = {1, 3, 6, 10, 15};
      // What could possibly go wrong here?
      System.out.println(alpha[5]);
      System.out.println(alpha[0] / 0);
    } catch(ArrayIndexOutOfBounds e) {
      System.out.println("You tried to access a non-existent array element!");
    } catch(ArithmeticException e) {
      System.out.println("Somebody tried to divide by 0. Oh no!");
    } catch(Exception e) {
      System.out.println("Some other error happened!");
    }

    try {
      int alpha = 5/0;
    } catch(ArithmeticException e) {
      System.out.println("Stop trying to divide by 0!!!");
    } finally {
      System.out.println("Finally always run, whether an error happens, or not!");
    }
  }
}
```

### Explanation
1. This exercise introduces the concept of `try-catch` blocks. Normally when an error, known as an `Exception` in Java, occurs the whole program crashes. Usually we don't want that. If we think a piece of code could cause an error, and this will be especially useful in the next exercise when we introduce interacting with files, we can run the code in a `try` block and have a `catch` block that runs if an exception occurs. After the `catch` keyword you have parentheses and in the parentheses you have the data type of the exception you want to catch and a variable identifier, which stores information about the exception. In Java, exceptions themselves are classes and therefore information about them can be accessed through properties and methods.
2. If you just want to catch any error you can just put the data type in the parentheses as an `Exception`. Usually programs through more specific exceptions, such as `ArithmeticException`, all of which are classes that inherit from `Exception`. Therefore putting `Execption` will catch an `Exception` as well as any subclasses of `Exception`.
3. There can be multiple `catch` blocks in order to catch different types of errors, and in addition a final `catch` block to catch any exception, just using `Exception`. Only one exception will ever be thrown from a `try` block and after that the block will stop running. Java will go through the `catch` blocks in sequence to find the first appropriate `catch`. For instance since an `Exception` catches every exception if there is an `Exception` before an `ArithmeticException`, even an `ArithmeticException` will be caught by the `catch(Exception e)` block.
4. A `finally` block is a block that always runs even if there has been an exception. It can be useful to do clean-up code, even if you don't know whether the computer will make it to the end of the `try` block.
