```java
public class Ex11 {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    int nitrogen_level = 5;
    int argon_level = 3;
    int oxygen_level = 2;

    int max_nitrogen_level = 6;
    int min_oxygen_level = 4;

    if(nitrogen_level < max_nitrogen_level) {
      System.out.println("It's okay, the nitrogen level is safe for humans.");
    } else {
      System.out.println("Okay, don't panic, but at current nitrogen levels you're going to die.");
      if(nitrogen_level > 10) {
        System.out.println("Estimated time alive remaining: 1 hour.");
      } else {
        System.out.println("Estimated time alive remaining: 10 days.");
      }
    }

    if(argon_level == nitrogen_level) {
      System.out.println("Argon level is at the optimum level.");
    } else if(argon_level > nitrogen_level) {
      System.out.println("Argon level is too high.");
    } else {
      System.out.println("Argon level is too low.");
    }
    
    if(oxygen_level < min_oxygen_level) {
      System.out.println("I'm sorry, but you have on average 3 minutes to live.");
    }
    
    for(int i = 1; i < 11; i++) {
      if(i % 2 == 0) {
        System.out.println(i + " is even");
      } else {
        System.out.println(i + " is not even");
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Explanation
1. In coding we often want a way to control which statements run and which don't based on a certain condition. If-else statements are a way to do just that. In this exercise, we introduce the concept of **if statements**, as well as `else` blocks and `else if` blocks. If statements contain a block of code in curly brackets that will only run if the condition in parentheses evaluates to `true`. 

2. In programming `true` and `false` have their own data type called the `boolean` data type. Operators such as `>`, `<` and `==` (which means something completely different from `=`) take two values and return either `true` or `false`. If they return `true` then the code runs, if not then the code doesn't run.

3. As mentioned before, while `=` assigns a value to a variable, `==` compares two values to see if they are the same. So `5 == 5` will return true, as will `5 == 5.0`, but not `5 == 5.1`.

4. If the condition of an if statement is false, and there is an `else` statement after it, then that block of code runs.

5. After an if statement there can also be `else if` statements as well as an `else` statement. There can, in fact, be multiple `else if` statements. The program then goes in sequence to find the first `else if` statement where the condition is `true`, provided the condition of the initial `if` statement returns `false`.

6. If there is no `else if` statement where the condition returns `true`, but there is an `else` statement, then the `else` block will run.

7. The important thing to note is only one block will run, and that is the first block of code where the condition is true. Otherwise, the `else` block will run, unless there isn't an `else` block, in which case no block of code runs.

### Extension Programs
1. Write the classic Fizz Buzz program. Loop from 1 to 100, and print "Fizz" if the number is divisible by 3, "Buzz" if it's divisible by 5 and "FizzBuzz" if it's divisible by 3 and 5, or just the number if it is not divisible by either 3 or 5.

2. Write a program that takes a number as its first `args` and prints all its factors.
