{"filter":false,"title":"Part II: Complex Interfaces.md","tooltip":"/src/en/Chapter-V/Part II: Complex Interfaces.md","undoManager":{"mark":0,"position":0,"stack":[[{"group":"doc","deltas":[{"action":"removeLines","range":{"start":{"row":235,"column":0},"end":{"row":260,"column":0}},"nl":"\n","lines":["## Cursor","This part is labelled as 'Complex Interfaces', and I've tried to keep it that way by only including interfaces themselves. However, it is very difficult to classify this thing. Ergo, I have taken the dhort route, and put it here. `Cursor` simply sets the cursor you are using to be a default shape, or a custom shape if you so wish. Bear in ming that there will be no pictures here because, as you can see above, you don't actually see my cursor. As a result it is completely pointless to look at a button and not be able to see the use. Anyway, you can change a cursor in the following way:","","```java","setCursor(Cursor.getPredefinedCursor(Cursor.WAIT_CURSOR));","```","","Bear in mind that `WAIT_CURSOR` is not the only cursor form. Oracle are kind enough to supply more predefined ones that that. Here is a list of them (this is not exhaustive, but is close):","","- CROSSHAIR_CURSOR","- DEFAULT_CURSOR","- E_RESIZE_CURSOR","- HAND_CURSOR","- MOVE_CURSOR","- N_RESIZE_CURSOR","- NE_RESIZE_CURSOR","- NW_RESIZE_CURSOR","- S_RESIZE_CURSOR","- SE_RESIZE_CURSOR","- SW_RESIZE_CURSOR","- TEXT_CURSOR","- W_RESIZE_CURSOR","- WAIT_CURSOR","","Just in case you are worried about it permanently changing your cursor - it only lasts for when your cursor is hovering over the JFrame, so changes back when you mouse out of the frame. It also only lasts while the program is running."]}]}]]},"ace":{"folds":[],"scrolltop":3080,"scrollleft":0,"selection":{"start":{"row":235,"column":0},"end":{"row":235,"column":0},"isBackwards":false},"options":{"guessTabSize":true,"useWrapMode":false,"wrapToView":true},"firstLineState":0},"timestamp":1409999206881,"hash":"e30279106e39a58d55e782279b91565dac18f242"}